#summary List of publications related to the features available in OLED.

= Publications =

The OntoUML Lightweight Editor aggregates the technological results of many research efforts. If you are interested in the theory and the process that generated this results or you want to quote them in you work, take a look at our list of publications (ordered by date): <br><br>

[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B5VKZPBDiDmFNk55RDF4a1NuNFE/view?usp=sharing Ontology Validation for Managers (MSc Thesis)] <br>
<i>Tiago Prince Sales, Giancarlo Guizzardi (Supervisor)</i> <br>
Vitória, Brazil: Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, 2014.

[http://www.inf.ufes.br/~gguizzardi/ER2014-CR++.pdf Detection, Simulation and Elimination of Semantic Anti-Patterns in Ontology-Driven Conceptual Models] <br>
<i>Tiago Prince Sales, Giancarlo Guizzardi </i> <br>
International Conference on Conceptual Modeling (ER). Atlanta, USA: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2014. 

[http://www.inf.ufes.br/~gguizzardi/emmsad2014.pdf Support for Domain Constraints in the Validation of Ontologically Well-Founded Conceptual Models] <br>
<i>John Oliveira Guerson, João Paulo Andrade Almeida, Giancarlo Guizzardi </i> <br>
International Conference on Exploring Modeling Methods for Systems Analysis and Design (EMMSAD). Thessaloniki, Greece: Springer Verlag, 2014. P. 302–316.

[http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1041/ontobras-2013_paper44.pdf An Automated Transformation from OntoUML to OWL and SWRL] <br>
<i>Pedro Paulo Favato Barcelos, Victor Amorim dos Santos, Freddy Brasileiro Silva, Maxwell Monteiro, Anilton Salles Garcia </i><br>
Seminário de Pesquisa em Ontologias no Brasil (ONTOBRAS). Belo Horizonte, Brazil: CEUR- WS.org, 2013. P. 130–141. 

[http://www.inf.ufes.br/~gguizzardi/PID2733627.pdf An Ontological Foundation for Conceptual Modeling Datatypes based on Semantic Reference Spaces] <br>
<i>Antognoni Albuquerque, Giancarlo Guizzardi</i>
International Conference on Research Challenges in Information Science (RCIS). Paris, France: IEEE Press, 2013. P. 1–12.

[https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B5VKZPBDiDmFOGFSeXY4bHJ2dVE&authuser=0 Validação de Modelos OntoUML Enriquecidos com Restrições OCL (BSc Thesis)] <br>
<i>John Oliveira Guerson, João Paulo Andrade Almeida (Supervisor)</i>
Vitória, Brazil: Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, 2013. 

[http://kr-med.org/icbofois2012/proceedings/ICBOFOIS2012Workshops/FOIS2012ODISE/FOIS-2012-ODISE-Sales-Barcelos-Guizzardi.pdf Identification of Semantic Anti-Patterns in Ontology-Driven Conceptual Modeling via Visual Simulation] <br>
<i>Tiago Prince Sales, Pedro Paulo Favato Barcelos, Giancarlo Guizzardi</i>
International Workshop on Ontology-Driven Information Systems (ODISE). Graz, Austria: 2012. 

[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B5VKZPBDiDmFTFBac01valduSTA/view?usp=sharing Identificação de Padrões de Erro em Modelagem Conceitual Por Meio de Validação de Ontologias OntoUML Utilizando Alloy] <br>
<i>Tiago Prince Sales, Giancarlo Guizzardi (Supervisor)</i>
Vitória, Brazil: Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, 2012. 

[http://nemo.inf.ufes.br/files/validating_modal_aspects_of_ontouml_conceptual_models_using_automatically_generated_visual_world_structures_2011.pdf Validating Modal Aspects of OntoUML Conceptual Models Using Automatically Generated Visual World Structures] <br>
<i>Alessander Botti Benevides, Giancarlo Guizzardi, Bernardo Braga, João Paulo Andrade Almeida</i>
Journal of Universal Computer Science, v. 16, n. 20, p. 2904–2933, 2010.

[http://www.inf.ufes.br/~gguizzardi/braga-et-al-ISSE10.pdf Transforming OntoUML into Alloy: towards conceptual model validation using a lightweight formal method] <br>
<i>Bernardo Braga, João Paulo Andrade Almeida, Giancarlo Guizzardi, Alessander Botti Benevides</i>
Innovations in Systems and Software Engineering, v. 6, n. 1, p. 55–63, 2010. 

[http://rcarraretto.googlecode.com/files/aModelingInfrastructureForOntoUML.pdf A Modeling Infrastructure for OntoUML (BSc Thesis)] <br>
<i>Roberto Carraretto, João Paulo Andrade Almeida (Supervisor)</i>
Vitória, Brazil: Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, 2010. 

[http://www.inf.ufes.br/~rguizzardi/OEO/dissertacao-Veruska.pdf Estudo de Alternativas de Mapeamento de Ontologias da Linguagem OntoUML para OWL: Abordagens para representação de Informação Temporal (MSc Thesis)]  <br>
<i>Veruska Zamborlini, Giancarlo Guizzardi (Supervisor)</i>
Vitória, Brazil: Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, 2011.

[http://www.inf.ufes.br/~gguizzardi/VORTE_2010_VZGG.pdf On the Representation of Temporally Changing Information in OWL] <br>
<i>Veruska Zamborlini, Giancarlo Guizzardi</i>
International Workshop on Vocabularies, Ontologies and Rules for The Enterprise (VORTE). Vitória, Brazil: IEEE Computer Society, 2010. P. 283–292.

[http://www.inf.ufes.br/~gguizzardi/benevides-et-al-2009.pdf Assessing Modal Aspects of OntoUML Conceptual Models in Alloy] <br>
<i>Alessander Botti Benevides, Giancarlo Guizzardi, Bernardo Braga, João Paulo Andrade Almeida </i>
International Workshop on Evolving Theories of Conceptual Modelling (ETheCoM).
Gramado, Brazil: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009. P. 55–64.